The Ethernet protocol allows multiple hosts to share a connection to one physical link. Explain briefly how Ethernet manages access to the link to ensure that simultaneous transmissions from multiple hosts do not interfere with each other.

Describe at least two factors that make collision avoidance more challenging in 802.11 networks than in multiple-access wired Ethernets. How is collision avoidance implemented in wireless networks?

When a host wants to connect to an Ethernet they use an adapter to connect to the Ethernet wire. Every adapter on the Ethernet wire is able to sense every other adapter on the wire. At the same time every adapter is able to sense if the wire is busy or idle and detect transmissions sent by every other adapter on the wire. This means that if adapter A sends a transmission adapters B and C on the wire will both sense that transmission. Additionally, every Ethernet adapter is also able to sense if a collision of data has occured. This happens when two adapters try to transmit at the same time and the information interferes with each other. If this happens the adapters will stop transmitting and send a jamming sequence to alert other adapters that a collision has occured. Then it will wait and try to resend the message again. The time waited is about double what the adapter has waited previously. This will happen up to 16 times before the adapter gives up and stops trying to transmit the message.

One factor that makes collision avoidance more challenging in 802.11 is the fact that it is impossible to detect every other adapter or host connected to the network like in Ethernet. This means that the sender may try to transmit data thinking that the connection is idle when in reality it is another host is also trying to transmit a message. This makes it very difficult to provide a reliable way of detecting if collisions have occured in 802.11.

A second factor that makes collision avoidance more challenging in 802.11 is that it can't send and listen for data at the same time. This means that if a collision has occured while data is being sent the sender will not be able to stop tramsmiting and send a jamming sequence like in Ethernet. To combat this problem a RTS/CTS system may be used. Using this system a sender of information will first send a signal to the reciever letting it know that it is ready to send information. If the reciever is also ready then it will respond with a clear to send message. Other senders on the signal will be very likely to hear the clear to send signal and wait a specified amount of time before tyring to transmit their own signals. This reduces the chances of a collision happening and is a collision avoidance strategy. 