1. IP makes minimal assumptions about the local networks and lower-
   level links transmitting the datagrams. This is because one of 
   the design goals of IP is that it supports hetrogenous networks.
   This means that we can have an ethernet network and a 802.11 
   or WIFI network both running IP with no issues despite the 
   design differences these two networks may have. 

2. Due to the fact that an IP network should be able to connect any type of technology that wants to join
   the network, IP does not make any guarentees about packet delivery. This is because it is impossible to
   define a standard for guarenteed delivery when IP is not able to make any guarentees about the hosts
   and routers that will be connected to the network. This ensures that any device connected to the
   network will be able to deliver the services required. This means that IP gives its best-effort to
   deliver a packet but will make no guarentee that the packet will acually arrive where it is supposed to
   go. If packets are lost or damaged IP will make effort to recover the lost data.
   
 3. The Internet Protocol needs to use IP addresses because they are hierarchical. This means that they
	are made up of different parts each of which corrosponds to a specific hierarchy in the network. 
	This structure usually consists of two different parts. The first part is the network part and the
	second part is considered the host part. The network part lets the router know what network the host
	is on and the second host part identifies the specific host on the network the package is ment for.
	On the other hand, the MAC address does not give this same information to the router. There is no way
	for a router to find which network to send the data to using the MAC address.

4. An IP address with a classless network prefix of 128.96.16/20 
   means that this address has a common prefix of 20 which can be 
   used as the network part of the IP address. Due to the fact that we are scaling up
   a class c network there were origionally 24 bit network part
   of the IP address 3 to denote a class c network and 21 bits
   to describe each unique network. with a 20 bit prefix the 
   origional 24 bit network part of the address gets shortened to
   20 bits leaving a total of 12 bits for the hosts on the network.
   This means that there can be 2^12 or 4096 hosts on this network. Or 2^12 - 2 to remove the reserved addresses 0 and 255.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   